At this point, you should be fairly comfortable
dealing with local state inside of your components.
However, one thing we haven't talked about yet is how
to fetch and manage data that is living in a database somewhere.
Your first intuition might be to make an Ajax request inside of the render method.
Unfortunately, that's a bad idea because
the render method needs to be free of side effects.
It shouldn't make Ajax requests or do anything that is asynchronous in nature.
It should only receive props and return a description of the UI.
So, if we can't make Ajax requests in the render method,
where should we make them?
This introduces the concept of lifecycle events in react.
Lifecycle events are special methods each component has that allow
us to run custom behavior during certain times of the components life.
Times like when a component is being created and inserted into the DOM,
when a component receives no props, and a few others.
React has a bunch of different life cycle events that you could hook into, but for now,
we're only going to talk about the most common ones.
First, is componentDidMount.
It's immediately invoked after the component is inserted into the DOM.
Then comes componentWillUnmount which is
invoked immediately before a component is removed from the DOM,
and last is get derived state from props which will
be invoked whenever the component is about to receive brand new props.
Now, I realized this is a lot of information to remember.
Don't get overwhelmed thinking you need to memorize all of them.
Instead, try to remember that they
exist and then look up the documentation when you need them.
Now, we still have to answer the initial question.
If we want it to fetch external data from an API,
how do we do this?
This is the perfect use case for the componentDidMount lifecycle event.